
RECTIFY(1)							    RECTIFY(1)



NAME
       rectify	-  converge  towards  a target image using a Monte Carlo algo-
       rithm.

SYNOPSIS
       rectify [IMAGE]
       rectify [IMAGE] [options]

DESCRIPTION
       Rectify is a command-line tool that uses a Monte Carlo  (MC)  algorithm
       to converge towards a target image using a random sequence of rectangu-
       lar brush strokes.  Images produced by rectify have a ghostly,  impres-
       sionistic quality.

       Rectify works by repeatedly attempting to apply a randomly placed black
       or white brush strokes of rectangular shape to a canvas. The stroke  is
       blended	with  the existing pixel block on the canvas and the change is
       accepted with a Boltzmann weight that accounts for  the	difference  in
       the  absolute value of the pixel block's distance from the target image
       following the trial move. The system is coupled to a thermal bath which
       allows the user to control the probability of accepting moves that take
       the image away from the target, thus allowing the rate  of  convergence
       to be tuned.

       Rectify	avoids	unneccessary  dependency  on  zlib and libpng by using
       LodePNG to decode and encode PNG images.  MersenneTwister  is  used  to
       provide high quality and efficient random numbers.

       Rectify	must be passed at least one command-line argument, the path of
       a PNG IMAGE file to be used as the target image. The image  will  auto-
       matically  be  converted  to  grayscale if color is detected. When run,
       rectify will output a sequence of images showing the evolution  of  the
       canvas  towards	the  target image. In addition, the current acceptance
       rate is printed to stdout allowing the user to monitor the rate of con-
       vergence.

       Rectify	is trivially parellelizable, MPI support will follow (allowing
       effecient processing of very large images).

OPTIONS
       rectify	supports  the  following  short-  and  long-form  command-line
       options. Invoking rectify with no options will print a help message.

       -h, --help
	      Print the help message.  LATUXIT_EDITOR.

       -i INT, --iterations INT
	      Where  INT is an integer specifying the number of MC iterations.

       -f INT, --frames INT
	      Where INT is an integer specifying the number of	frames	to  be
	      saved.

       -s DOUBLE, --stroke DOUBLE
	      Set  the	maximum extent of the trial stroke, where DOUBLE indi-
	      cates the stroke extent as a fraction of the target image width,
	      e.g.   a	value of 0.5 would set the maximum stroke extent (both
	      width and height) to half the width of  the  target  image.  The
	      algorithm  proceeds more slowly when the maximum stroke width is
	      large since, on average, more pixels must be processed per trial
	      move.

       -c IMAGE, --canvas IMAGE
	      Start  the algorithm using an existing canvas given by PNG IMAGE
	      file. The IMAGE must be the same size as	the  target  otherwise
	      rectify  will  abort. If the IMAGE is full color it will be con-
	      verted to grayscale before the algorithm	starts.   This	option
	      can also be used to continue covergence from an existing rectify
	      project, e.g. if too few iterations were chosen.

       -t DOUBLE, --temperature DOUBLE
	      Specify the temperature of the thermal bath. A  higher  tempera-
	      ture  will  mean	that more trial brush strokes are accepted. At
	      zero temperature, only moves that take the canvas closer to  the
	      target  will  be	accepted  (comparable to a hill climbing algo-
	      rithm). Temperature adds noise to the system and can be used  to
	      tune  the rate of convergence as well as the style of image pro-
	      duced.

       -l, --log
	      Use logarithmic spacing for sampling points. This is useful when
	      convergence is very slow.

       -d DIRECTORY, --directory DIRECTORY
	      Specify  a  directory for the output files.  DIRECTORY should be
	      in the working directory and  will  be  created  if  it  doesn't
	      already exist.

       -m, --monitor
	      Turn on acceptance monitoring. If set, rectify will monitor sta-
	      tistics for the  acceptance  rate  and  compute  histograms  for
	      accepted	brush  strokes.  This  is  useful for determining what
	      stroke sizes are dominant as the canvas  evolves.  Trial	stroke
	      sizes  can  be tuned accordingly.  In monitor mode, rectify will
	      produce three additional output files: log.txt a log file of the
	      acceptance  rate	at  each sampling time hist.txt the acceptance
	      probability  for	each  stroke   size   (width,	height),   and
	      hist_xy.txt a two-dimensional matrix of the histogram data.

DEFAULTS
       iterations 1000000

       frames 1000

       temperature 1.0

       stroke 0.1

       logarithmic off

       monitor off

CREDITS
       LodePNG, http://lodev.org/lodepng.

       MersenneTwister, www.math.sci.hiroshima-u.ac.jp/~m-mat/MT/emt.html.

       Anna, for the name.

BUGS
       Email bugs, comments, and artwork to lester.hedges+rectify@gmail.com.



Lester Hedges			  2013/01/21			    RECTIFY(1)
